## QUICK SUMMARY
To add a new artwork: 
  1. take a picture of the art, and save two copies. A large one with a longest side of 960 pixels, and a smaller thumbnail with a longest side of 480 pixels. Save these in the img directory.
  2. update the google spreadsheet with the information for the new art piece.
  3. export the spreadsheet to the artworks.json file.


## MORE DETAILS 
The html to display the artwork is generated by the file "showArtwork.php". This parses the file "artworks.json". This is a plain text file that serves as a database of all the art that you want displayed on the page.

To make this file easier for you to manage, we’ve set up a google spreadsheet here:

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1TMWvCOYV-cpH6wL0TwLVPt64dCikgOXNIA3rQ6o55x0/edit#gid=0

you can add or remove art as you want to from here. The columns are mostly self explanatory, but here are descriptions

(column name: description: example)

* title: the title of the art work as you want it displayed: Poetic Artwork Title
* price: the price or ‘sold’ or something similar: $40000000
* size: size in inches of the canvas, width x height: 14x11
* medium: what’s the art made out of: oil
* imagename: the BASE-IMAGE-NAME of the files in the ing directory. more on this below: poetic-artwork-title
* landscape: is this a landscape? true or false: TRUE
* stilllife: is this a stilllife? true or false: FALSE
* winter: is this a winter scene? true or false: TRUE
* display: do you want this shown on the website? true or false: TRUE

once everything in the spreadsheet is to your liking, open up the file “artworks.json” in a text editor and delete everything. Then click on the “Export JSON” button on the google spreadsheet and select “Export JSON for this sheet”. The computer will compute for a few seconds and a window will pop up with the reformatted data. Select all of this (command-A), copy it (command-C), and paste it into artworks.json (command-V). Save artworks.json and the update is complete.


###NOTE ABOUT imagename:
Each image that’s on the page needs two files: a normal image and a thumbnail. The normal images have their longest side at 960 pixels (i.e. they fit in a 960x960 square), and the thumbnails fit in a 480x480 square. So save two copies of the photo to the img folder: a large one called BASE-IMAGE-NAME.jpg and a smaller one called BASE-IMAGE-NAME_480.jpg. BASE-IMAGE-NAME should ideally have no whitespace.


####NOTE ABOUT building:
from the root directory run 'grunt build'. This creates a 'dist' directory, which is to be uploaded to the webserver.
